KCL book, second edition (#29)
KittyCAD/kcl-book: kcl-book/src/patterns.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - A solid to pattern (the unlabeled first argument, which is implicitly set to % and therefore gets the result of the `extrude()` function call--the cylinder--piped in)
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Takes a single argument called `i`. This argument `i` is used to indicate which number replica we are currently processing. The first copy made will set `i` to 1, the second copy will set `i` to 2, etc. The argument `i` is prefixed with `@` to indicate it's this function's special first unlabeled argument, so if you call it, you'd call it like `grid(1)` or `grid(2)`, not `grid(i = 1)`.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, we define a function `grid` which tells `patternTransform` to translate each replica by a certain amount `column * gap` along the X axis, `row * gap` along the Y axis, and to stay on the same location on the Z axis (i.e. move exactly 0 along that axis).
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `grid` functions is called by `patternTransform` the same number of times as `patternTransform` 's first argument `instances`. On each call to `grid` the current instance number is passed and bound to `i`, i.e., given that `noColumns` is `5` and the code provides `instances=noColumns * noColumns` (which is `5 * 5 = 25`) the sequence of calls is `grid(0)`, `grid(1)` ... `grid(24)`. 
 
Therefore the specific value of `row` and `column` changes every time the `grid` function is called, because these variables are calculated from the input argument `i`. To calculate `column` and `row` we're going to use a few new KCL functions we haven't seen before.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`floor`] function takes a fractional number, and rounds it down to the nearest integer. For example, `floor(3.6)` is `3`. This means it's a good way to calculate the row, because the first five times it's called, `row` will always equal `0`. It'll round down `(i / n)` from `0/5`, `1/5`, `2/5`, `3/5`, `4/5` all down to `0`. Then the sixth time it's called, it will receive `5/5`, which is 1, and round it down to `1`. These neat little mathematical tricks mean we can calculate the row and column from the repetition number `i`.
```

Here, the center of the pattern is `[0, 0, 0]`. We drew the first cube at the northernmost position (12 o'clock) and all the other instances were patterned around that center. Nice!

**Note**: The `center` argument is optional, and defaults to `[0, 0, 0]`.

> Notice that we used `rotateDuplicates = false`. If we set it to `true`, each duplicate will be rotated a little bit as they're copied around the circle, so that they're all facing the center. Like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice that we used `rotateDuplicates = false`. If we set it to `true`, each duplicate object is also rotated as it is copied around the circle, so that they're all facing the center. Like this:
```

<!-- KCL: name=circular_cubes_true,alt=Using circular patterns to replicate a cube-->

> The `arcDegrees` argument is optional, and defaults to 360 degrees. We can set it to `240deg` to only pattern around two thirds of the circle instead:

Reviewer: We should be consistent--the code uses `360` the text uses `240deg` either add the `deg` to all or drop it from all. My preference is to add it to all as it makes it clear to the reader that this value denotes degrees.

  vertical([circle1.center, ORIGIN])
  vertical([circle1.center, circle1.start])
}

// Extrude that circle into a small cylinder,
// then pattern it around.
region(point = [0mm, 7.3125mm], sketch = smallCircleSketch)
  |> extrude(length = 2)
  |> patternCircular3d(
       instances = 6,
       axis = Y,
       useOriginal = true,
     )
```
<!-- KCL: name=pattern_sof,alt=Using a pattern to repeatedly sketch on face-->

**Note**: When patterning an extrusion which was originally sketched on a face, KCL doesn't know whether you want to pattern the entire modified solid (e.g. both the base solid and the volume added by sketch-on-face-then-extrude), or just the extrusion. By default, `useOriginal = false`, so the entire solid (original and new volume added via sketch-on-face-then-extrude) will be patterned. You can set `useOriginal = true` to only pattern the part added via sketch-on-face-then-extrude.

In other words, when `useOriginal = false` (the default), the total modified solid (made from a parent solid, and the modification) will be patterned around the global scene. When `useOriginal = true`, the modification will be patterned around the parent solid.

## Transform patterns

> Circular and linear patterns cover a lot of really common use-cases for mechanical engineers. But sometimes you want to do more complicated patterns, in more complicated shapes. We can't add a dedicated pattern function for every single shape our users can think of -- that would be ridiculous. Instead, we've got a powerful, flexible interface for patterning solids in any arrangement you can think of. It's called a _transform_ pattern. They're created with the [`patternTransform`] function. It takes a familiar `instances` arg, which controls how many total copies of the shape you want. But it takes a new argument, called `transform`. This is a _custom function_. We'll dive deeper into those in the following chapters, but for now, they're basically just a way to calculate how to transform each replica in the pattern.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Circular and linear patterns cover a lot of really common use-cases for mechanical engineers. But sometimes you want to do more complicated patterns, in more complicated shapes. We can't add a dedicated pattern function for every single shape our users can think of -- that would be verbose and unmaintainable. Instead, KCL has a powerful, flexible interface for patterning solids in any arrangement you can think of. It's called a _transform_ pattern. They're created with the [`patternTransform`] function. It takes a familiar `instances` argument, which controls how many total copies of the shape you want. But it takes a new argument, called `transform`. This is a _custom function_. We'll dive deeper into those in the following chapters, but for now, they're basically just a way to calculate how to transform each replica in the pattern.
```

```kcl=xform_grid
numColumns = 5    // how many columns in our grid
width = 10        // side length of each square
gap = 1.5 * width // gap between each square

// Sketch a square
squareSketch = sketch(on = XY) {
  line1 = line(start = [var -1.35mm, var 1.51mm], end = [var 1.44mm, var 1.51mm])
  line2 = line(start = [var 1.44mm, var 1.51mm], end = [var 1.44mm, var -1.25mm])
  line3 = line(start = [var 1.44mm, var -1.25mm], end = [var -1.35mm, var -1.25mm])
  line4 = line(start = [var -1.35mm, var -1.25mm], end = [var -1.35mm, var 1.51mm])
  coincident([line1.end, line2.start])
  coincident([line2.end, line3.start])
  coincident([line3.end, line4.start])
  coincident([line4.end, line1.start])
  parallel([line2, line4])
  parallel([line3, line1])
  perpendicular([line1, line2])
  horizontal(line3)
  equalLength([line1, line2, line3, line4])
  distance([line4.start, line4.end]) == width
}

// Transform function
fn grid(@i) {
  column = rem(i, divisor = numColumns)
  row = floor(i / numColumns)
  return {
    translate = [column * gap, row * gap, 0]

>   }

Reviewer: Do we need the block around `translate = ...` 

Why is it not 

```
return [column * gap, row * gap, 0]
```

or 

```
translate = [column * gap, row * gap, 0]

return translate
```

Author: It's returning a KCL object (with one property, `translate`). I've clarifid this in the text now.

numColumns = 5    // how many columns in our grid
width = 10        // side length of each square
gap = 1.05 * width // gap between each square

// Sketch a square
squareSketch = sketch(on = XY) {
  line1 = line(start = [var -1.35mm, var 1.51mm], end = [var 1.44mm, var 1.51mm])
  line2 = line(start = [var 1.44mm, var 1.51mm], end = [var 1.44mm, var -1.25mm])
  line3 = line(start = [var 1.44mm, var -1.25mm], end = [var -1.35mm, var -1.25mm])
  line4 = line(start = [var -1.35mm, var -1.25mm], end = [var -1.35mm, var 1.51mm])
  coincident([line1.end, line2.start])
  coincident([line2.end, line3.start])
  coincident([line3.end, line4.start])
  coincident([line4.end, line1.start])
  parallel([line2, line4])
  parallel([line3, line1])
  perpendicular([line1, line2])
  horizontal(line3)
  equalLength([line1, line2, line3, line4])
  distance([line4.start, line4.end]) == width
}

// Transform function
fn grid(@i) {
  column = rem(i, divisor = numColumns)
  row = floor(i / numColumns)
  // Is `i` an even, or odd, number?
  isEven = rem(i, divisor = 2) == 0

  return {
    translate = [column * gap, row * gap, 0],
    // Only create a replica if `isEven` is true.
    replicate = isEven,

>   }

Reviewer: It looks like we are returning something other than a flat value? is this an Object? The specs on the webpage have `{ }` so if I assume this is an Object type then the followup is, are there special keys? Why `translate` and `replicate`? 

This smells like a JSON object kind of type or even a Typescript type but I cannot find documentation to state that explicitly
